## Assignment 3 - Individual Capstone Assessment
**By Ryan Green**
### Introduction
For our senior design capstone project, we have chosen to develop an application that resolves some of the common challenges and issues that educators and students face with remote learning. Our goal is to also address and incorporate challenges in hybrid learning environments. We are not currently limiting this application to a certain format or platform. This project idea is in response to the current learning situations due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We want to deliver an application with an intuitive frontend design and a powerful backend. From an academic perspective, this project will largely involve Software Engineering concepts. The project will involve many of the topics we have learned about through the Computer Science and Co-op programs at the University of Cincinnati.
### Coursework
As mentioned, many concepts I have learned in previous courses will be applied to this project, with a focus on Software Engineering. The most important classes are the programming and algorithm classes I have taken, such as CS2028 Data Structures, CS3003 Programming Languages, and in the Spring, I will be taking CS4071 D&A Algorithms. These classes are important to learn the skills required to program such an application. From a frontend design perspective, I have taken CS5167 User Interface I, which will help in designing the interactions a user will have with the application as well as how the interfaces will look and flow. I am currently taking CS5127 Requirements Engineering, which I believe will be a good complement for next semester’s EECE3093 Software Engineering. The first course will help me explicitly define strong requirements for the project while in the design stages. I will be able to use the knowledge I learn in Software Engineering to turn these detailed requirements into a powerful codebase while adhering to all aspects of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). One final course I believe will potentially contribute is CS5160 Computer Graphics. The information learned in this class will be helpful if there are any complex graphical aspects that need to be implemented into the application.
### Co-op
Through the Co-op program at UC, I have gained many practical skills and knowledge that are hard to obtain in a classroom. For all four semesters of co-op, I have worked at Siemens Digital Industries Software as a Software Engineer Intern. I worked with my team to design, develop, and maintain CAD modeling features within Siemens NX. This work was completed through projects that were driven by the SDLC and I got to work through all stages of it. In my later semesters I was given the opportunity to create and manage two projects of my own. The concepts learned from this process will be invaluable while completing this project, and we can implement the stages into our own project life cycle throughout the next 8 months. I have gained knowledge regarding realistic requirement and functional analysis, and how to turn these requirements into deliverables. This project process required extensive documentation through project documents, and the experience of writing those will be useful for documenting the work completed on this project. From a technical viewpoint, most of the programming work was completed in C++, with a small amount of Python. The coding practices I have learned from this experience will carry over to whichever programming language we decide best fits our application.
### Project Motivation
I am very excited to start work on this project. This project aims to tackle modern challenges that are increasingly relevant due to the current circumstances. In my opinion, solving these challenges is what technology is all about, and being able to contribute to solutions for these modern problems is why I want to become a Software Engineer. I am ready to culminate all of the knowledge and skills I have gained during my time at UC into a project with the potential to help people. I believe it will be a good fit because it is aiming to solve problems that I and the rest of my peers are currently facing on a daily basis. Working on this project will help me solidify my career goals after college and ensure that I am taking a desirable path.
### Project Approach
We are looking to deliver an application that will address the common problems students and educators face in remote and hybrid learning environments. This application may take the form of a mobile app, a website, or a desktop application. We will start our design approach by creating a list of these challenges we are interested in solving and performing a heavy requirement analysis with these identified problems. With these requirements we will be able to start realizing the design and medium for the application. I expect the resulting deliverable from this project to address and provide solid solutions for the problems we identify. Our results can be measured by usage, through certain user-reported metrics such as accessibility, ease of use, and how well it performs the desired task. Since this is a group project, we will work as a team and hold ourselves and each other to high standards. I will be mindful of the work completed and we will divide tasks to ensure equal effort is put into the project. As a Software Engineering project, we will know we are done once we have completed the implementation, performed some testing and user trials, and then revisited the design/code to make any improvements we deem necessary. Our success can be measured through the amount of effort put into the project and the previously mentioned user-reported metrics on the final deliverable. 